# Bachelor Thesis
This repository includes the code from our bachelor thesis under supervisor Larisa Beilina.

The goal of the thesis is to compare popular regularization techniques to non-regularization and see how much regularization helps and which technique performs the best for our particular datasets. A goal was also to compare if the regularization improvements differ using a Fully Connected neural network vs a Convolutional Neural Network. In our thesis we have chosen to look at image datasets and in particular the ISIC-dataset which includes dermascopic images of skincancer.  The net effect that we wish to have is that in the many possible hyperparameters to spend time on tuning we can save time of tinkering with regularization or at the very least have a rough guideline for what obtains good results on similar data (like cancer data for example).

The project required writing a complete from scratch implementation of a fully connected neural network which we have done in the folder Matlab. We have implemented a general neural network where you can easily change the number of layers and the number of nodes in each layer. This network also includes implementation of Adam optimizer, initialization of weights using Kaiming, and other functionalities like checking accuracy. It is possible to train on all datasets using our Matlab implementation, however due to unoptimized code and primarily not using cuda code enabling to run on GPU the speed is very slow.

Because of this limitation we also rewrote the code using an optimized library in PyTorch and enabling code to run on the GPU with massive speed improvements. Using PyTorch we implemented Fully Connected and CNN and trained on the datasets CIFAR10, FashionMNIST, MNIST, and finally the ISIC-dataset.